# Club Scheduling

This repo implements a BioCypher pipeline that grabs all of the repo's issues,
which are organisational units of individual club meetings, and schedules them
into the available timeslots. The clubs to be scheduled are represented by
issues on a GitHub [project
board](https://github.com/orgs/saezlab/projects/18/views/1), which can also be
displayed as a [time
table](https://github.com/orgs/saezlab/projects/18/views/2). Personal schedules
for the upcoming meetings can be found at the bottom of this README.

## Usage

The workflow in `.github/workflows/calculate_schedule.yaml` is run periodically
on each Monday evening. It clones the repository, installs the dependencies, and
runs the `calculate_schedule.py` script, which uses the BioCypher GitHub adapter
in `scheduling/adapters/adapter.py` to get the data and then computes the
schedule from the data.

The pipeline can also be run locally and subsequently updated online by pushing
the results to the repository. 

### Scheduling

The scheduling algorithm is a simple greedy algorithm that iterates through the
clubs (i.e., the issues) in *random order* and assigns them to the first
available timeslot, given that all attendants (i.e. assignees) of the club are
available at that time. If no such timeslot exists, the club is postponed (to
the `Unscheduled` column) to next week. 

If the club has been successfully assigned, the corresponding issue is updated
with the assigned time and moved to the `Scheduled` column. The schedules of
each person are also appended to the bottom of the README file.

### Preparing for the next week

After the club meetings, cards that were successfully scheduled are
automatically removed back to the `To be scheduled` column for the next week.
If a club should not be scheduled for the next week, it can be moved to the
`Closed / Parked` column.

Assignees should be updated to reflect those that wish to attend the club in the
following week.

### Parking Clubs

If a club should not be scheduled for the coming week(s), the card can be moved
to the `Closed / Parked` column. The club will then be ignored by the scheduling
algorithm.

## Current Schedule
Next week's schedule will be posted on Tuesday at noon.
